Jupyter can be used as an IDE to make learning Python easy and an entry point to machine learning.
It's strength is displaying data
There are 2 components to Jupyter: the app which is written is JS and runs in the browser, and a server.
The app presents cells, each of which is a Python Shell.  You can write text in Markdown or code in Python and it gets executed right away. Text and code can be mixed.  The files are stored locally in JSON.

This is from the lynda (linkedin) course called "Introducing Jupyter"

Installing Jupyter
Don't bother.  Install Anaconda - a Python distro instead.  It comes with Jupyter, NumPy, pandas and other data analysis tools.
Go to anaconda.com and download the 3.7 version.  Don't bother with VS Code.

Starting Jupyter
> jupyter notebook

Stopping Jupyter
Note that closing the browser does not stop the process.  
Either:
from the notebook tab> close and halt
from the dashboard> select and shutdown

You can close the Jupyter server by
> ctrl-c ctrl-c from the terminal
or 
>quit button at the top ot the page.

Saving
UI> file + save
This will save but also create a checkpoint.  The checkpoint means is saving the previous version of the file.  There is only one version retained. The file type of the backed-up notebook is .ipynb

Jupyter Interface
After selecting a notebook:
"View" opens that file.
"Edit" opens the raw JSON of that file.  This won't be commonly used.

Each cell can be run by <shift><enter>

The cells can be moved by the up and down arrows.
You can search for commands on the right hand side.  This is akin to Excel.

Modes
Jupyter has the same modes as VI, but it switches around the terminology.
Edit mode (green coloured cell) is like insert in VI and has commands just for the content. <ctrl> key is for these shortcuts.
Command mode (blue cell) is for notebook-level commands. It is entered by the <esc> key. <alt> key is for these shortcuts.

"H" shows shortcuts
"P" shows command palette.

Jupyter Magics (commands)
Line magics
Give you the ability to execute bash-like commands from within Jupyter.  This is for commands like cp, cat, ls

Cell Magics
Execute bash-like commands on the cell. They are prefaced with %%.  

Exporting Notebooks
Notebooks can be exported using download commands or the nbconvert tool from a terminal command line. They notebooks can be converted to static HTML or PDF.

Sharing Notebooks
Github is used to sharing Notebooks.
The Jupyter project has many interesting notebooks.

Gitbub gists also have interesting notebooks.
Secret and Public Gists.

There is also the nbviewer for sharing notebooks, without the other services Git provides. 






